KENDRA: There is no word for trauma.
Not shellshock or combat fatigue.
Not mental health or a diagnosis as disorder.
Not suffering. There is no cure for what happens.
There are appearances.
There is being unrealistic.
The family as people related by a shared inner veil.
The shroud distinguishing between the symbolized and the nothing,
as natural history like substance.
There is a nurse, a single mother to seven who never complains.
As she disappears through her skeleton,
her hands move away the pain,
even when there is nowhere else for anything or anyone to go.
There is a known Western soldier and his daughter.
Through disinheritance of remains, the last book,
or the disintegrating garment worn in the camp,
they offer the knowledge that to survive torture
is to reckon through the self with the question of belief.
When war finally kills him,
he is invoked as “those not with us today.”
There is a woman knitting.
With her words, I witness her devotion to him.
Without her words, I know her fear.
I wonder how she survives.
There is a lady weaving.
She has a sister and she feels annihilated.
As though I am made of plastic,
she tells everyone here that I have become a very quiet person.
There is the brother, the oldest of five.
He’s pacing in the hallway,
asleep in the daytime or awake at night,
a better way to cope than cornering the children
or detaining the war resisters.
Doctors have not listened well enough
and psychotropics only last so long.
He leaves me with drugs and recorded music.
There is the youngest of them.
We wander the streets,
admiring the nature of this architecture enmeshed with our own psyches.
He shows me how, when we are young,
our survival depends on believing they care.
Waiting for recovery, his friend told him
how the birds draw the lines we need to take.
But the information didn’t reach him in time.
There is surviving poverty, which is not wealth,
not mental illness, not crime.
There are minds, our minds,
the stressed ground for this enclosing economy.
Spirits accumulated as free property.
The melancholy of anatomy or the anatomy of melancholy.
There is Christine de Pizan believing in Joan of Arc.
There is a counsellor sharing her expertise
in the norms and divergences of human nerves.
There is us keeping us safe
moving the construction pylons in the alley,
telling each other to protect our energies
against the denaturing of substance.
There is a crazy bitch slouching
towards dysphoria or a positive mental attitude.
She’s lost control
wondering how she’s related to this Instagram therapist.
There is the question: are you happy?
There is no substitute for direct encounters with the
sun.